And know the
silence and the peace that is the core
of our being.
I bow to the divine
indweller residing in each one of
you. And I
pray that we all
know that at the level of
consciousness, humanity is
one. We are
one
community, one
family and one
being. May the divine inspires
to realize this
truth and as I begin today's today's
gathering with
you I know and I feel that this is a
family gathering
It is not a
gathering of foreigners or
visitors or
aliens. It's a gathering of our own
people who breathe the same
breath because we are all connected by
the same breath.
Today's get
together is a
gathering to realize that we are all
connected by the same breath. Today's
get together is not merely a talk which
I will give you. Of course, I will tell
you a few
things. There'll be question
answers. But above all today's
gathering, today's
satssung I would like to make an
experiential
one experiential because we have to get
out of the dead letter into the living
spirit that you all
represent. You're not this house of
flesh and
bone which sleeps, decays and dies.
You are immortal
consciousness, lord of the earth and the
skies. We have to make the shift. Shift
your identity from the corruptible body
to the immortal soul. This is the
message I bring you. The shift, the
paradigm
shift. You have to realize that you're
not a perishable body but an everlasting
immortal consciousness. And it is
towards this realization that I present
to you the practice of the science of
kria yoga which I will discuss and I
will tell you about as we go along
today's
satsang. Now before I begin I'd like I
would like to see my audience. Somebody
has put off all the lights and just
blasted me with the lights. So, so I
cannot see who I'm talking to. I don't
know who's made the light arrangements.
May I request There you
go. It should be a fair deal, you know.
It's not that you are sitting in the
dark
and cuz I need to see your angelic faces
too. All potential angels, potential
gods. I can see it because I could look
deep. You cannot see yourselves as gods
and angels. But I can see yourselves as
gods and
angels because I see with the
consciousness and the divine eye. In the
daytoday life, people contact one
another and see one another through the
eyes of the flesh. But if you look with
the eyes of the spirit and a still mind,
you will see the dazzling soul, the
dazzling consciousness inherent in every
one of
you. There is so much
hope. I do not come here to teach you
any religious cult or
creed. I come here to unite with you as
brothers and sisters and friends, as a
community, as a family and as one being.
And when I breathe through your breath,
you will realize that my breath is
connected to your breath. And therefore,
if our breath is connected all together,
why should we not as we breathe the same
breath, have the same consciousness,
have the same super
soul. We are all
one. But as much as I may talk, you will
you will understand it uh
intellectually. You will agree to it and
you'll be happy that I'm saying this but
you will not believe it from the
innermost core unless you get the
experience. So that is very necessary
and for you to get the experience
please drop all preconceived notions. I
forgot to put that notice outside as you
entered. Leave all preconceived notions
and the negative mind outside the door
with your slippers and shoes.
and come in clean and pure like a child
a child of five ready to learn ready to
experience I do not know whether they've
told you before I came that when because
this today's satssung is experiential
you should drop the mind and open the
heart let the light and love pour
through because if you want an
experience
uh then they There must be no
attitude. Attitude
is an aberration of the
mind, a twisted
mind. So therefore, if you're
simple and feel with your head and think
with your heart, then all will be well
because you'll be well
balanced. It's it's a good idea.
I have come to give you this
message from the
ancient hills and mountains of the
Himalayas that there is an ancient
science as old as the
hills. It is a lost
science. It has nothing got to do with
the 7th day Adventist or the Jehovah's
Witnesses or Christianity or Hinduism or
Islam. It has got to do with
you. It's got to do with you with a
clear mind as you had when you were
two 2 years of
age. But then all these things, these
layers of mind came upon you which were
not
healthy for the world citizen. We are
world citizens and we can't get along
with our
neighbors. And in my humble
understanding, there have been all
these
denominations and philosophies and
ideologies and religions in the
world and I like them all and I bow to
them all and I respect them
all. But our endeavor and my I always
ask myself this question that yes
definitely these great religions are
there but then why have they
not been
able to bring the people of this
earth to live in peaceful
coexistence. The observation is that
they have
not. So therefore
I have evolved. It is I do not know how
to put it. There's no I in it. But a
certain idea grew in me. Not to say that
this would be successful or
unsuccessful. We don't know. But we can
all try
it. If human beings were human
beings and cut off, stripped themselves
off of their ideologies and religious
trappings and became human beings
first. Then we could stay together in
peaceful coexistence.
Therefore, I always said
that
humanity, if earth peace is to herald
the dawn of the new
age, we must all
realize that
humanity is our uniting
religion. I said this at the United
Nations. I was invited to speak over
there and I said, "What what saying do
you have? What is your soul cry?" They
don't have any because they're too busy
settling wars in the Middle East and
with uh you know Syria and they torn
with all
these bickerings and battles and wars. I
said humanity is our uniting religion.
Let's let's make this our breath our
motto. Let's make it our vision.
Humanity are uniting
religion.
Breath are uniting
prayer. If today I try and force you to
say, "Our father which art in heaven,
hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done. In earth as it is in
heaven, give us this day our trespasses
and all." So one guy said, "No sir, I
don't have that prayer. My prayer is
better." You know he'll
say I I am Islam and I
say
Muhammadoolah. The other fellow say no
no I don't like that. I
say
Jama no Hail Mary full of
grace. So we want to have such a prayer
where we don't clash with one another.
And what is that prayer? Let's simplify
it to its
ultimate. It's your breath. That's the
only thing humanity can do as a religion
without stepping on the toes of one
another, without offending one another
and without hurting one another's
feelings because you're already
breathing.
I was educated in an English public
school and uh we had very fine prayers
and the the the missionaries left no
stone unturned to make us good Catholics
or good Christians. I did I became one
but I was still thirsty for more. So I
went to Islam. I studied their
ways. I became
an a Muslim but that didn't satisfy me.
I went to Zorastronism and went to
Christianity. I went to Jehovah's
Witnesses. I went to Hinduism but I was
still thirsty and then I said the path
is to find the true nature within
without these religious ideologies or
trappings. Let the mind fly free. You
see relig means to bind to one ideology
or one philosophy. It's a Greek word
meaning
religion. Relig to bind. We don't want
to bind. We want to
fly. We don't want religion. We want
union. Yog the union with the soul with
the spirit. We want the union with the
soul. The soul with the
spirit. So
therefore I went and my parents used to
tell me go to the temple and this and
that and all it's very necessary and god
you know he gives you his your bread and
butter. He gives you life. He gives you
love. So go to the temple be holy. Be
good. I said that's good. Do charities.
One day I didn't go to the temple and I
didn't go for 3 days. God gives me life
but I didn't go for 3 days but I nothing
happened. I was still as good as I was
and I didn't
die. Then I same thing I tried with the
with the mosque. I used to go to the
mosque and the da. I did a lot of
practices of Islam in which I reveled
and enjoyed myself. I didn't go to the
mosque the masjid.
I I didn't do the rosa of the Ramadan.
Nothing happened. I didn't die. I had
Christianity. I didn't go to church for
3 days. God didn't punish me. I didn't
die. Then I tried to hold my breath for
minutes. I said which is and I almost
died. So I said this is my humanity our
uniting religion. Breath is our uniting
prayer. Breath is the prayer without
which without praying the breath I will
surely die. And therefore kria yog is
the science of the breath. It is not
Hindu, Christian, Muslim or uh any other
religious denomination. It is a
scientific path of selfing into the
self. The answer lies within. Dear
souls, the answer lies within. No god
from anywhere, no teacher, nobody can
give you. We can just guide you. But the
answer you have to find for yourself.
And the answer does not lie in dabbling
in the intellectual mind and getting
analysis paralysis. The answer lies in
stilling the mind. And behind the rough
and tumble of the daily mind, you see
the still
consciousness. So you have to look
within. And this is the technique of
yog which satisfies all your
queries. Humanity are uniting religion,
breath are uniting prayer and
consciousness are uniting God. This is
the saying I told the United Nations put
it up. This should be the the motto the
world's motto because I know we have a
very small religion. They say Islam is
the biggest, Christianity is the
biggest. I say ours is the humblest. So
how many people does your religion have?
So many 50 52 countries 62 countries. I
said we have
humanity and those who follow humanity
need not follow religious trappings. Of
course respect them. We respect each one
of your religions. We respect each one
of your creeds, each one of your
philosophies. But over and above that
please humanity's if earth peace is to
herald the dawn of the new age. Let us
all realize that humanity is our uniting
religion. Say after me, if earth peace
is to herald the dawn is to herald the
dawn of the new age of the new age.
Everybody say, "Let us all realize." Let
us all realize
humanity our uniting religion. Humanity
our uniting religion. Breath. forever.
Our uniting prayer our uniting prayer
and consciousness and consciousness our
uniting God our uniting. Close your
eyes. Inhale and see how you feel about
it. Inhale
love, hold
love, and exhale love.
For earth
peace, inhale love for self
peace. Hold
love. Exhale love for earth
peace. Inhale love for self
peace.
Hold. Exhale love for earth peace.
Inhale for self peace.
Hold. Let it mix with every atom of your
being. And exhale love for earth
peace. Okay, open your eyes.
So here we are on the same platform on
the same
page with a clean
slate that we are human
beings. We breathe and we have a divine
essence within us a
consciousness. It's very
basic. That's all we need. That's all we
need to find our divine
indweller to find the God within
us. That's all we must live with
awareness. And this is the message I
bring from the Himalayan
yogis. This is a lifestyle. It's a way
of life.
And this lifestyle of yog which I'm
going to teach you and empower you
tomorrow into the science of ka yoga
will see you through your bridge shall
not break. The rainbow bridge between
humanity and divinity is the science of
kria
yog. It is not a cult nor creed. It is
totally non-denominational.
It contradicts no religion, faith or
creed, but compliments all. It
contradicts none of your lifestyle, but
helps you do what you're already doing
better. And for this practice and see
for
yourself. That's what I'm going to give
you
tomorrow. This
practice it is a pathway to peace and
selfreization. The practice of this
yog is a simple spinal
breathing where you focus your
consciousness, your soul consciousness,
you focus it in your spine and you do
spinal breathing.
And you will be if you practice one of
the known heroes of
humanity, victor of
death, be breath
enthralled. If you're enthralled in your
breath now, what does this science of
kria yog do? What does it do exactly?
And why should I uh you know leave my
prayer and my Christianity or my namas
of Islam and practice crea yog? No, I'm
not saying leave it. Do
it. Follow your own faith. Do what you
like. Do what you think is life. But
listen to me as well over and above what
you do. practice this scientific
technique because I will tell you
that your body, every body here is
carbon
based. Your physical body is carbon
based. It's made of carbon, the atoms
and molecules of carbons. Now everybody
here I see is going into veganism,
vegetarianism, Caesar salad, not with
the blue dressing, but the Italian
dressing because it has less weight in
it. No blue cheese. So they're very very
particular, especially the ladies. The
men are a little careless, but the
ladies lead them on the super health
diet. So it's So you ask the ladies,
they say, "What are you doing?" We're
detoxing. They they're always
detoxing. But they say they say, "Yogi,
your face is shining and you look
pretty. You got a white beard and a
young face and a white beard. How come?
So how's your face so young and a beard
so white?" I said, "I also
detox."
So that time that lady who asked me this
question was in Hawaii and she was
saying I'm very very interested but she
was having a soul repair. She was
mending her soles of her feet and her
toenails and all that. She was in the
spa and had her feet and she was getting
her feet pampered, whatever you call
that.
Okay. Now, a
pedicure. So, I saw I said 10 minutes it
carried on, 20 minutes it carried on,
half an hour, 45
minutes, 1 hour.
So then I couldn't control myself and I
went up to this great lady. I said, "If
she's spending so much time on her feet,
how much time she must be spending on
her
head? She seems to have more in her feet
than in her
head." So anyway, I kept my opinions to
myself and I said I told her one thing.
I said, "Look," I said,
"Madam, I'd like to tell you one thing.
It's a very simple scientific
thing. I
said if you spent half the
time if you spent half the time you
spend on your souls on your soul you
would be liberated by
now. So she said what do you mean? I
said exactly what I'm saying.
You have pampered the soles of your feet
for 1 hour
plus, you know, getting it scrubbed and
dubbed and rose water and this and c
cactus juice and mango juice and almond
paste and whatnot and all. I learned a
lot when I when I come here to America.
I learn a lot of these things all detox
material and it's terrific.
So, so I also enjoy some of these
things.
Uh, so she said I said look if you
meditate on your inner consciousness on
your soul for even half an hour every
day with such
passion that you are curing your or
pedicuring your feet. you would
definitely get to a deep state of
realization. So she got very interested
and she started questioning and then
later on she came and took the ka yog
and she's progressing well still
practicing and all those little aches
and pains and she said I don't go to the
spa but my my friends tell me that my
face is glowing. So I said, "Madam, tell
your friends, I didn't mean to put them
out of business, but they can carry on
their spa, but uh if you detox your body
regularly, if you're
breathing 03 in your spine, there's an
atomic explosion which takes place in
the spine. And you are breathing the
long breath. If you notice that the
slower the person breathes, the longer
he lives. If you see a human being, he
lives for 60 to 80
years. He's breathing about
what 60 time 30 times or uh 22 times uh
per minute. I don't know whatever it is.
He breathes 21,600 times in 24
hours. So he lives for 60 to 8 years. If
you see an elephant is breathing only 16
times, he lives well over 100 years. the
elephant unless it's killed by accident
well over 100 years then if you see a
giant tortoise or turtle he breathes
four breaths a minute and we we've known
to to have turtles which are living for
400 years am I right turtles so the phil
the observation of the yogis was to slow
the breath and lengthen the life but as
you slow the breath it cuts through the
carbon, the toxins, the negativity of
the mind. Simple
breathing, breathing with
awareness dissolves emotional
suffering. It alleviates mental stress.
It soothes the nerves and calms the
mind. This you will practice and see for
yourself. It's a science.
The human
heart is doing about 18 to 20 tons of
work with the blood every 24 hours which
is a great strain on the heart and the
system. Now if by superior means of
lengthened
breathing I oxygenate my cells my body
cells and keep them in a spiritually
magnetized condition. All my alvioli are
fresh and full of
oxygen. Normally we are breathing with
how much percent of our lungs?
16%. 20% 30% 40% athletes 60 to
70%. 80% even. But the normal person
using 17 to 25%. He never breathes
deeply.
So I wanted to remind the people in
America that it was not Jane Fonda who
started the aerobic system of breathing.
10,000 years ago we people knew about
the science of pranayam. And we also
knew of the science of
chitai. Chai means the life force energy
which the Chinese reversed and made tai
chi. Chittai. I know by now you know
everything is coming from India. It's a
beacon of light to the world. It so
happened like other countries have their
specialtities. One has politics, America
has business, they Germany has
mechanics. They are all expert. So India
has spirituality as it's been to mind.
So when your when you breathe
[Music]
longer your body is filled with oxygen
and your cells are kept in a spiritually
magnetized condition and therefore the
pumping of the heart is
slower from 20 18 tons to 14 tons to 6
tons to 3 tons work to 1 ton to 300 lb
and when you still the heart and I in a
spiritually magnetized condition of
samadhi the blissful state of expans
expanded
consciousness. Your heart is still. You
need not breathe. The pulse is not
beating. The heart is not beating
because you have enough reservoir of
life force within you to rest the heart
and yet live on. That's called
samadhi. The state of sadhi, state of
trance, which is the true yog. Yog is
not putting your your feet on your head.
That is just physical postures. The true
yoga has
samadi always sati and all these zen and
all are a small portion it trickled from
India and went to Japan and China and
that you think to be the true meditation
but the true meditation is yog. Now when
you oxygenate your body and fulfill it,
you get longevity of
life and a constant breathing also
detoxifies the body, alleviates
emotional
suffering, decreases and dissolves
stress of the day-to-day
life resulting in a still
mind. And when the ripples of thought in
your mind's lake are still, then only
you can see the moon of your delight. I
the moon of your delight is what? Your
soul, your divine indweller, the Christ
within, the Krishna
within, the Babai within. That is the
main thing. So you have
to practice this technique and every day
you need not be a believer in God. You
need not be a non-believer in God. You
can practice it scientifically and still
get the results. You will be you but you
will be pure. Your aura, your radiant
shall
shine. And those of you, many of you who
have come here, all those who have come
here, you have already crossed the first
stage because you have come here.
Otherwise, who's going to come and
listen to a mad man? We have so many
things
here. We have the beach. We have
Disneyland. We have the best of scotches
and wines and figures and freeze and
trees and a holiday
resort. And why should they spend time?
Because you are evolved. You want
something deeper. You've had enough of
the superfluous things of life.
And then you say to
yourself, never take things by the
outward
show. Although I know America is all
about packaging. I
agree. He says, never take things by the
outward
show. For the feather flies high, but
the pearl lies low. This is
important. And I have explained to you
now
basically the science of kria yog and I
will be teaching this
tomorrow. Uh the kria yog is of course
to be practiced. It's a scientific
technique. All great masters have
practiced
uh to this or that effect the science of
breath.
Uh,